.Dd $Mdocdate: January 22 2015 $
.Dt KDATA_STDDEV_ALLOC 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kdata_stddev_alloc
.Nd allocate standard deviation data for plotting
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In cairo.h
.In kplot.h
.Ft "struct kdata *"
.Fo kdata_stddev_alloc
.Fa "struct kdata *source"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm kdata_stddev_alloc
creates a reference-counted data sources for
.Xr kplot 3 .
It attaches to zero or more existing data sources and, when they update
their values, tracks the standard deviation (via the unbiased sample
variance) of sequence of updated values.

It attaches to zero or more existing data sources and, when they update
their values per-index, tracks the standard deviation (via the unbiased
sample variance) of the sequence of updated values.
Thus, if a standard deviation data source is attached to two sources,
its y-value for pair zero will reflect the standard deviation from the
mean of all values set to pair zero's y-value in the sources.
Note that the indexing is absolute: if attached to a bucket or
histogram, pair index zero refers to the first internal data storage,
not storage mapped from the bucket or histogram.
.Pp
If
.Fa source
is not
.Dv NULL ,
the internal buffer is initialised to the size of the source and all of
its x values.
The standard deviation is initialised to zero with zero updates.
Otherwise, the internal buffer is sized to zero.
.Pp
Further data sources may be attached with
.Xr kdata_stddev_attach 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns
.Dv NULL
if memory allocation failed.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kdata_stddev_attach 3 ,
.Xr kplot 3
.Rs
.%A Donald E. Knuth
.%B The Art of Computer Programming: Seminumerical Algorithms, 3rd Edition
.%C Boston
.%D 1998
.%I Addison-Wesley
.%P 232
.%V Volume 2
.Re
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.Sh CAVEATS
Each standard deviation bucket can process a maximum number of
.Dv SIZE_MAX
updates.
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
