.Dd $Mdocdate: January 16 2015 $
.Dt KDATA_MEAN_ADD 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kdata_mean_attach
.Nd attach source for mean data plotting
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In cairo.h
.In kplot.h
.Ft int
.Fo kdata_mean_attach
.Fa "struct kdata *dst"
.Fa "struct kdata *source"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm kdata_mean_attach
function attaches a data source
.Fa source
to a mean data source
.Fa dst
allocated with
.Xr kdata_mean_alloc 3 .
The internal buffers will be increased, if necessary, to the size of the
new buffer.
If the buffer is increased, the mean values of the new buckets are set to zero.
The x-values of the new pairs are set to the new source's x-values.
.Pp
Passing
.Dv NULL
as
.Fa source
will simply return.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 if memory allocation failed or if
.Fa dst
was not allocated with
.Xr kdata_mean_alloc 3 .
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kdata_mean_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kplot 3
.Rs
.%A Donald E. Knuth
.%B The Art of Computer Programming: Seminumerical Algorithms, 3rd Edition
.%C Boston
.%D 1998
.%I Addison-Wesley
.%P 232
.%V Volume 2
.Re
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.Sh CAVEATS
If you attach multiple sources with different x-values, the mean
x-values will be inconsistent.
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
