.Dd $Mdocdate: January 15 2015 $
.Dt KDATA_MEAN_ALLOC 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kdata_mean_alloc
.Nd allocate mean data for plotting
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In cairo.h
.In kplot.h
.Ft "struct kdata *"
.Fo kdata_mean_alloc
.Fa "struct kdata *source"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm kdata_mean_alloc
creates a reference-counted data sources for
.Xr kplot 3 .
It piggy-backs on zero or more existing data sources and, when they
update their values, tracks the mean value of the newly-updated value.
The internal buffer is sized to the maximum index of all piggy-backed
data sources, and initialises to zero for new buffer elements.
.Pp
For example, if an array is allocated with
.Xr kdata_array_alloc 3
and passed to
.Nm kdata_mean_alloc ,
the result of calling
.Xr kdata_array_fill 3
and filling the buckets with uniform random data will cause the mean
values to eventually converge.
.Pp
If
.Fa source
is
.Dv NULL ,
the data source will be empty.
Further data sources may be attached with
.Xr kdata_mean_attach 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns
.Dv NULL
if memory allocation failed.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kdata_mean_attach 3 ,
.Xr kplot 3
.Rs
.%A Donald E. Knuth
.%B The Art of Computer Programming: Seminumerical Algorithms, 3rd Edition
.%C Boston
.%D 1998
.%I Addison-Wesley
.%P 232
.%V Volume 2
.Re
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.Sh CAVEATS
If you attach a mean-value data source to a data source upon which one
aggregates a value instead of setting it, the mean-value will be
computed from the sequence of aggregating value, not the sequence of
values themselves!
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
