.Dd $Mdocdate: February 1 2015 $
.Dt KPLOT_ATTACH_SMOOTH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kplot_attach_smooth
.Nd assign smoothed plot data to plotting context
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In cairo.h
.In kplot.h
.Ft int
.Fo kplot_attach_smooth
.Fa "const struct kplot *p"
.Fa "struct kdata *d"
.Fa "enum kplottype t"
.Fa "const struct kdatacfg *cfg"
.Fa "enum ksmthtype smthtype"
.Fa "const struct ksmthcfg *smth"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function assigns a smoothed data source
.Fa d
to a plotting context
.Fa p ,
reference-counting the data source in the process.
See
.Xr kplot_attach_data 3
for details on the
.Fa p ,
.Fa d ,
.Fa t ,
and
.Fa cfg
parameters.
The remaining
.Fa smthtype
and
.Fa smth
configure smoothing options, which manipulate the data as it's being
drawn.
The following smoothing types are available:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv KSMOOTH_MOVAVG
Replace each point with the average of the surrounding
.Va movsamples
points.
If
.Va movsamples
if not an odd number, it is increased by one.
If the point is not surrounded completely by
.Va movsamples ,
say by being at the initial or trailing points of the data set, or the
points surrounding are not valid numbers, then the point is not
averaged.
.It Dv KSMOOTH_CDF
Compute the empirical CDF from all valid points of the set.
This will normalise the y-values to within the unit interval.
.It Dv KSMOOTH_PMF
Normalise the y-values as probabilities of valid points of the set.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 if allocation of internal structures fails due to memory
exhaustion.
In this case, all allocations and references will be dropped.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kplot 3 ,
.Xr kplot_attach_data 3 ,
.Xr kplot_attach_datas 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.Sh CAVEATS
The
.Dv KSMOOTH_CDF
an
.Dv KSMOOTH_PMF
has undefined behaviour for negative probabilities.
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
