.Dd $Mdocdate: January 26 2015 $
.Dt KPLOT_ALLOC 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kplot_alloc
.Nd allocate plotting context
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In cairo.h
.In kplot.h
.Ft "struct kplot *"
.Fo kplot_alloc
.Fa "const struct kplotcfg *cfg"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function allocates a plotting context for later use by
.Xr kplot_attach_data 3 ,
.Xr kplot_draw 3 ,
and so on.
It must be freed with
.Xr kplot_free 3 .
The only argument,
.Fa cfg ,
is copied: all allocated members (e.g.,
.Va clrs
and Cairo pattern) are re-allocated or referenced, as the case may be,
so the caller can free all memory in the meantime.
The options provided via the
.Fa cfg
object are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va extrema
A bit-field allowing arbitrary assignment of xy-ranges:
.Dv EXTREMA_XMIN ,
.Dv EXTREMA_XMAX ,
.Dv EXTREMA_YMIN ,
and/or
.Dv EXTREMA_YMAX .
This fixates the ranges unconditionally (i.e., no auto-scaling will
occur and points or lines drawn outside will be clipped).
.It Va extrema_xmin
If
.Dv EXTREMA_XMIN
is set, this value will be used instead of a value computed from the data.
.It Va extrema_xmax
See
.Va extrema_xmin .
.It Va extrema_ymin
See
.Va extrema_xmin .
.It Va extrema_ymax
See
.Va extrema_xmin .
.It Va margin
Bitfield of which margins to draw:
.Dv MARGIN_LEFT ,
.Dv MARGIN_RIGHT ,
.Dv MARGIN_TOP ,
.Dv MARGIN_BOTTOM ,
or
.Dv MARGIN_ALL .
.It Va marginsz
The width of the margin in user-space Cairo coordinates.
These are clamped to be non-negative.
The margin is the space between the image boundary and the longest (or
tallest) label edge, or if no label is specified on any face, the plot
area.
.It Va ticlabel
Bitfield of which labels to draw:
.Dv TICLABEL_LEFT ,
.Dv TICLABEL_RIGHT ,
.Dv TICLABEL_TOP ,
or
.Dv TICLABEL_BOTTOM.
.It Va ticlabelfont
All font characteristics of the tic labels.
.It Va xticlabelpad
Space between horizontal (x-axis) tic labels and the plot area.
Specifically, between the edge of the longest label along any face and
the plot area.
.It Va yticlabelpad
See
.Va xticlabelpad .
.It Va xticlabelrot
Rotation of horizontal (x-axis) labels (in radians) clamped to 90 degrees.
Rotation is clockwise.
Note that if this is nonzero, the tic label is aligned under the
tic-mark at the top-left part of the field, instead of the middle as is
the usual case.
.It Va xticlabelfmt
This function may be user-defined for formatting the horizontal x-axis
label as a UTF-8 string limited to 128 bytes (including nil terminator).
It accepts three arguments: the value to format, the string buffer in
which to format, and the size of the buffer.
The default is to use
.Xr snprintf 3
with the
.Li %g
format string.
.It Va yticlabelfmt
See
.Va xticlabelfmt .
.It Va border
Bitfield of which borders to draw:
.Dv BORDER_LEFT ,
.Dv BORDER_RIGHT ,
.Dv BORDER_TOP ,
.Dv BORDER_BOTTOM ,
or
.Dv BORDER_ALL .
.It Va borderline
The configuration of the border line.
See
.Xr kplot_attach_data 3
for an explanation of the line structure.
.It Va clrs
Array of colour configurations for the colour palette.
If no colours are specified, which is the default, a default palette
will be installed.
See
.Xr kplot_attach_data 3
for a description of the colour structure.
.It Va clrsz
The number of colours in clrs.
Colour indices index into the
.Va clrs
array modulo this value.
.It Va xtics
The number of tics (and thus labels) to draw along the horizontal
x-axis.
The border condition (one tic) is drawn in the centre.
.It Va ytics
See
.Va xtics .
.It Va tic
Bitfield of which tics to draw:
.Dv TIC_LEFT_IN ,
.Dv TIC_RIGHT_IN ,
.Dv TIC_TOP_IN ,
.Dv TIC_BOTTOM_IN ,
.Dv TIC_LEFT_OUT ,
.Dv TIC_RIGHT_OUT ,
.Dv TIC_TOP_OUT ,
or
.Dv TIC_BOTTOM_OUT .
.It Va ticline
The configuration of the tic line.
See
.Xr kplot_attach_data 3
for an explanation of the line structure.
.It Va xaxislabel
The label for the x-axis, shown below the bottom x-axis tic labels (if
specified).
.It Va x2axislabel
The label for the second x-axis, shown above the top x-axis tic labels
(if specified).
.It Va yaxislabel
See
.Va xaxislabel .
.It Va y2axislabel
See
.Va xaxislabel .
.It Va xaxislabelrot
The clockwise rotation of the x-axis label.
Note that this will turn around its centre, so no matter the rotation,
it will be correctly buffered on both sides.
.It Va yaxislabelrot
See
.Va xaxislabelrot .
.It Va xaxislabelpad
The padding between the top of the x-axis label and the bottom of the
x-axis tics (if specified).
.It Va yaxislabelpad
See
.Va xaxislabelpad .
.It Va axislabelfont
All font characteristics for the
.Va xaxislabel
and
.Va yaxislabel .
.It Va grid
Bitfield of which grid lines to draw:
.Dv GRID_X ,
.Dv GRID_Y ,
or
.Dv GRID_ALL .
.It Va gridline
The configuration of grid lines.
.El
.Pp
If
.Dv NULL
is passed as a configuration, reasonable defaults are used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns
.Dv NULL
on memory allocation failure.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kplot 3 ,
.Xr kplot_free 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
