.Dd $Mdocdate: February 1 2015 $
.Dt KPLOT_ATTACH_DATA 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kplot_attach_data
.Nd assign plot data to plotting context
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In cairo.h
.In kplot.h
.Ft int
.Fo kplot_attach_data
.Fa "const struct kplot *p"
.Fa "struct kdata *d"
.Fa "enum kplottype t"
.Fa "const struct kdatacfg *cfg"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function assigns a data source
.Fa d
to a plotting context
.Fa p ,
reference-counting the data source in the process.
The plot style assigned to the plot is
.Fa t .
The options provided via the
.Fa cfg
object are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va point
The configuration for
.Dv KPLOT_POINTS
and
.Dv KPLOT_LINESPOINTS
plots.
.It Va line
The configuration for
.Dv KPLOT_LINES
and
.Dv KPLOT_LINESPOINTS
types.
.El
.Pp
The
.Vt "struct kplotline"
structure is arranged as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va sz
The diameter of the line in pixels as defined by Cairo's
.Fn cairo_set_line_width .
By default, this is 1.0.
.It Va dashes
An dash configuration as described by Cairo's
.Fn cairo_set_dash
function.
By default, solid lines are used.
.It Va dashesz
See
.Va dashes .
.It Va dashoff
See
.Va dashoff .
.It Va join
The line join as defined by Cairo's
.Fn cairo_set_line_join .
By default, use
.Dv CAIRO_LINE_JOIN_ROUND .
.It Va clr
The colour configuration.
By default, use
.Dv KPLOTCTYPE_DEFAULT .
.El
.Pp
The
.Vt "struct kplotpoint"
structure is arranged as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va sz
The diameter of the point line in pixels as defined by Cairo's
.Fn cairo_set_line_width .
By default, this is 1.0.
.It Va radius
The circle radius defaulting to 3.0.
.It Va dashes
An dash configuration as described by Cairo's
.Fn cairo_set_dash
function.
By default, solid lines are used.
.It Va dashesz
See
.Va dashes .
.It Va dashoff
See
.Va dashoff .
.It Va clr
The colour configuration.
By default, use
.Dv KPLOTCTYPE_DEFAULT .
.El
.Pp
Line-drawing colours are dictated by
.Vt "struct kplotccfg" ,
which is defined as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va type
The type of colour.
If set to
.Dv KPLOTCTYPE_DEFAULT
.Pq the default ,
the
.Dv KPLOTCTYPE_PALETTE
option will be set during
.Xr kplot_draw 3
to the index of the line in the set of lines.
If
.Dv KPLOTCTYPE_PALETTE ,
.Va palette
is used as an index into the colour palette matrix.
This is clamped (modulo) to the palette size.
Lastly,
.Dv KPLOTCTYPE_PATTERN
will have use
.Va pattern ,
which may not be
.Dv NULL .
The pattern is referenced when attached and dereferenced when the data
source is removed from the plot.
.El
.Pp
If
.Dv NULL
is passed as a configuration, the defaults will be used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 if allocation of internal structures fails due to memory
exhaustion.
In this case, all allocations and references will be dropped.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kplot 3 ,
.Xr kplot_attach_datas 3 ,
.Xr kplot_attach_smooth 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
