.Dd $Mdocdate: November 19 2014 $
.Dt KPLOT_DATA_ADD 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kplot_data_attach
.Nd assign plot data to plotting context
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In cairo.h
.In kplot.h
.Ft int
.Fo kplot_data_attach
.Fa "const struct kplot *p"
.Fa "struct kdata *d"
.Fa "enum kplottype t"
.Fa "const struct kdatacfg *cfg"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function assigns a data source
.Fa d
to a plotting context
.Fa p ,
reference-counting the data source in the process.
The plot style assigned to the plot is
.Fa t .
The options provided via the
.Fa cfg
object are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va point
The configuration for
.Dv KPLOT_POINTS
plots.
.It Va extrema
A bit-field allowing arbitrary assignment of xy-ranges:
.Dv EXTREMA_XMIN ,
.Dv EXTREMA_XMAX ,
.Dv EXTREMA_YMIN ,
and/or
.Dv EXTREMA_YMAX .
.It Va extrema_xmin
If
.Dv EXTREMA_XMIN
is set, this value will be used instead of a value computed from the data.
.It Va extrema_xmax
See
.Va extrema_xmin .
.It Va extrema_ymin
See
.Va extrema_xmin .
.It Va extrema_ymax
See
.Va extrema_xmin .
.It Va line
The configuration for
.Dv KPLOT_LINES
types.
.El
.Pp
If
.Dv NULL
is passed as a configuration, reasonable defaults are used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 if allocation of internal structures fails due to memory
exhaustion.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kplot 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
