.Dd $Mdocdate: March 24 2015 $
.Dt KPLOT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kplot
.Nd plotting library for Cairo
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
library plots 2d data and functions on Cairo drawing contexts.
The library usually works as follows.
.Bl -enum
.It
Allocate plot data sources with
.Xr kdata_array_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_bucket_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_buffer_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_hist_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_mean_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_stddev_alloc 3 ,
and
.Xr kdata_vector_alloc 3 .
Arrays and buckets have integral pair positions, differing in that
buckets linearly translate position requests into internal storage.
Histograms map from a range of floating-point pair positions into
internal storage.
Buffers cannot be directly modified, and are instead copied from other
sources.
Mean and standard deviation sources attach to other sources and compute
the mean and standard deviation as their values change.
.It
Modify using data source's individual functions or the generic
.Xr kdata_get 3 .
.It
Allocate plots with
.Xr kplot_alloc 3 .
.It
Associated each plot data source with one or more plot using
.Xr kplot_attach_data 3
.Xr kplot_attach_datas 3 ,
or
.Xr kplot_attach_smooth 3 .
Plot data sources are added by reference; thus, they may be referenced
by multiple plots.
.It
Draw plots to Cairo contexts with
.Xr kplot_draw 3 .
.It
Free plots with
.Xr kplot_free 3
and data sources with
.Xr kdata_destroy 3 .
.El
.Ss Domain and Range
Each plot domain and range is extended to fit all of its data sources at
the moment
.Xr kplot_draw 3
is invoked.
.Ss Styles
Styles are applied to plots and when a plot data source is added to a
plot.
Thus, if one has a data source referenced by two separate plots, they
may be styled in different ways.
.Ss Numerical Precision
All values in
.Nm
are double-precision floating-point, though some (such as
.Xr kdata_mean_alloc 3 )
will use the
.Vt size_t
integral type for internal counters.
If a plot is handed non-normal numbers (infinite, subnormal, NaN), the
entire coordinate pair is discarded from range/domain calculation and
plotting.
.Ss Drawing Model
There are two main components to the drawing model: the plot area and
the buffer zone.
.Pp
The plot area consists of the plotted curves and overlapping borders and
axis tics.
Each border centre is drawn at the graph edge, so half the border
width will extend into the plot.
(This is how Cairo draws its lines.)
Moreover, tics, if facing inward, will also (and obviously) be part of
the plot area.
.Pp
The buffer zone consists of the other half of borders, outward-facing
tics, tic labels, axis labels, and the margin.
The vertical (left and right) margins define the space between the
left-most (or right-most) vertical axis label point and the image edge,
or if labels have been specified, the same for those labels.
Similarly, the horizontal margins define the space beyond the top-most
(or bottom-most) horizontal axis label point.
.Pp
The space around the plot area for labels takes into account horizontal
labels flowing into the vertical label space and vice versa.
.Pp
Borders and tics are not considered when measuring the buffer zone.
Thus, a margin of zero will directly abut the plot area.
.Ss Memory Model
.Nm
uses the usual libc memory functions for allocation.
However, plot data sources are reference-counted to make sharing between
plots easier.
Thus, calling
.Xr kdata_destroy 3
will dereference, only freeing when nobody references the source.
.Ss Statistics
The
.Nm
library is not built for high-level statistics, but some primitive
statistics may be collected from the underlying data sources:
arithmetic mean via
.Xr kdata_xmean 3
and
.Xr kdata_ymean 3 ,
population standard deviation via
.Xr kdata_xstddev 3
and
.Xr kdata_ystddev 3 ,
and extrema via
.Xr kdata_xmin 3 ,
.Xr kdata_xmax 3 ,
.Xr kdata_ymin 3
and
.Xr kdata_ymax 3 .
If the data describes a probability mass function, the
.Xr kdata_pmfmean 3 ,
.Xr kdata_pmfstddev 3 ,
and
.Xr kdata_pmfvar 3
functions are also provided.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kdata_array_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_array_fill 3 ,
.Xr kdata_bucket_add 3 ,
.Xr kdata_bucket_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_buffer_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_buffer_copy 3 ,
.Xr kdata_destroy 3 ,
.Xr kdata_get 3 ,
.Xr kdata_hist_add 3 ,
.Xr kdata_hist_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_mean_add 3 ,
.Xr kdata_mean_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_pmfmean 3 ,
.Xr kdata_pmfstddev 3 ,
.Xr kdata_pmfvar 3 ,
.Xr kdata_stddev_add 3 ,
.Xr kdata_stddev_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_vector_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kdata_vector_append 3 ,
.Xr kdata_xmax 3 ,
.Xr kdata_xmean 3 ,
.Xr kdata_xmin 3 ,
.Xr kdata_xstddev 3 ,
.Xr kdata_ymax 3 ,
.Xr kdata_ymean 3 ,
.Xr kdata_ymin 3 ,
.Xr kdata_ystddev 3 ,
.Xr kdatacfg_defaults 3 ,
.Xr kplot_alloc 3 ,
.Xr kplot_attach_data 3 ,
.Xr kplot_attach_datas 3 ,
.Xr kplot_attach_smooth 3 ,
.Xr kplot_detach 3 ,
.Xr kplot_draw 3 ,
.Xr kplot_free 3 ,
.Xr kplot_get_datacfg 3 ,
.Xr kplot_get_plotcfg 3 ,
.Xr kplotcfg_defaults 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
