.Dd $Mdocdate: January 22 2015 $
.Dt KPLOT_DATAS_ATTACH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kplot_datas_attach
.Nd assign multi-plot data to plotting context
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkplot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In cairo.h
.In kplot.h
.Ft int
.Fo kplot_data_attach
.Fa "const struct kplot *p"
.Fa "struct kdata **d"
.Fa "const enum kplottype *t"
.Fa "const struct kdatacfg *const *cfg"
.Fa "enum kplotstype st"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function assigns a
.Qq multi-data
source set
.Fa d
to a plotting context
.Fa p ,
reference-counting the data sources in the process.
See
.Xr kplot_data_attach 3
for a more general description of attaching data.
Multi-data source sets consist of a baseline and one or more pair lines,
for example, a curve and its error bars.
The most common usage is for graphing mean (the baseline) and standard
deviation above and below (pair lines) via
.Xr kdata_mean_alloc 3
and
.Xr kdata_stddev_alloc 3 .
The order in which you arrange the array parameters
.Fa d ,
.Fa t ,
and
.Fa cfg :
the first is for the baseline, subsequent are for pair lines as defined
by
.Fa st .
The
.Fa cfg
argument can be
.Dv NULL
.Pq as can individual array entries ;
all other parameters and indexes must not be
.Dv NULL .
The plot types are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv KPLOTS_YERRORLINE
Draw a baseline using the first element in
.Fa d .
The next element is used to draw error lines above (adding to the
y-position) and below (subtracting) the baseline.
Subsequent lines are ignored.
Data sources are matched by bucket index,
.Em not
x-axis value, which is ignored for all pair data sources.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 if allocation of internal structures fails due to memory
exhaustion, or not enough data sources have been provided.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kplot 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
